# pyrandomsearch

Performs random search on a parameter space where the objective function is a program that outputs a number to stdout. The initial points are read from the input specified by `--evaluated-points` (default is stdin). At each step the set of existing points is sorted to find the "best" point (see `--optimization-type`). Exploratory points (see `--num-proposals`) are then generated by picking an offset vector on a scaled N-dimensional sphere (see `--dimensionality` and `--radii`) and applying it to the best point. For each exploratory point the command is run to evaluate that point. Each newly evaluated point is added back to the set of existing points and the optimization repeats until convergence (see `--stale-threshold` and `--stale-count`). The value for a point is the first line in the command's stdout that can be converted to a float. This means the string `inf` and `-inf` are parsable and can be used to mark impossible parameter points.

## Example

Say you have a simulation and analysis test suite that runs a series of simulations for a given configuration and returns a single numeric score for that configuration:

```sh
$ ./evaluate_configuration_in_sim --alpha=0.3 --beta=1.0 -C 1000.0 342.4 10
1034.53
```

You want to find a good configuration but the configuration/parameter space is five dimensional (five numbers to tune). A grid search works nicely for getting a feel for the configuration space but can be expensive if your simulation and analysis suite is expensive to run. Random search is a crude but simple method for exploring a configuration/parameter space.

`pyrandomsearch` basically is a "driver" that determines new configurations to try and then invokes your command with the configuration. It then reads the score/cost from the command and repeats until progress slows (gets "stale").

Here's an example invocation:

```sh
$ echo "1034.53 0.3 1.0 1000.0 342.4 10" \
  | pyrandomsearch \
    --radii=0.1,0.5,500,100,4 \
    --optimization-type=max \
    --num-proposals=10 \
    --print-date-and-time \
    './evaluate_configuration_in_sim --alpha={} --beta={} -C {} {} {}'
```

## Installation

The program can be installed by installing the Python module from source which will establish the `pyrandomsearch` entry point:

```sh
python setup.py install
pyrandomsearch --help
```

Alternatively the `pyrandomsearch.py` is stand alone and can be run directly.

```sh
./pyrandomsearch/pyrandomsearch.py --help
```
